# Earth — batch 6: strange places & record breakers
Danakil Depression in Ethiopia is one of the hottest and most alien-looking places on Earth, with colourful acid pools.
Lake Natron in Tanzania is so alkaline it can calcify dead animals, leaving them looking like statues.
The Door to Hell in Turkmenistan is a gas crater that has been burning since 1971.
Spotted Lake in Canada dries into dozens of colourful mineral pools in summer.
Lake Hillier in Australia is naturally bright pink.
Pink lakes get their colour from salt-loving algae and bacteria.
Caño Cristales in Colombia is called the "river of five colours" because of plants that turn its water red, yellow, green and blue.
The Blood Falls in Antarctica pour out red, iron-rich water from under a glacier.
The Richat Structure in Mauritania, nicknamed the Eye of the Sahara, is about 40 km wide and visible from space.
Pamukkale in Turkey has white terraces of mineral deposits that look like snow.
The Giant's Causeway in Northern Ireland has about 40,000 hexagonal columns formed by cooling lava.
Socotra in Yemen has dragon's blood trees that look like giant umbrellas.
The Wave in Arizona is a swirling sandstone formation that looks like it's frozen in motion.
Mount Roraima in South America is a flat-topped mountain surrounded by cliffs and waterfalls.
Some lakes in Antarctica are buried under kilometres of ice, like Lake Vostok.
The Marble Caves in Patagonia are carved by water into swirling blue patterns.
The Tianzi Mountains in China inspired the floating mountains in the film Avatar.
Fly Geyser in Nevada was accidentally created by well drilling and now grows colourful mineral mounds.
Earth's longest cave system is Mammoth Cave in Kentucky, with over 680 km mapped.
The Sahara's sand dunes can be over 150 metres tall.
The Badain Jaran Desert in China has some of the tallest stationary dunes in the world, plus lakes between them.
Antarctica's Dry Valleys are among the driest places on Earth and have had almost no snow or rain for a very long time.
Oymyakon in Russia is one of the coldest permanently inhabited places, reaching about −67 °C.
Dallol in Ethiopia once recorded some of the highest average yearly temperatures of any inhabited place.
Mawsynram in Meghalaya gets around 11,000 mm of rain a year on average.
Arica in Chile is one of the driest cities on Earth.
Tristan da Cunha is one of the most remote inhabited islands in the world.
Point Nemo, in the South Pacific, is the place in the ocean farthest from any land.
Old satellites and space stations are often crashed near Point Nemo, sometimes called a spacecraft graveyard.
The astronauts on the ISS can sometimes be the closest humans to Point Nemo.
The Kola Peninsula's superdeep borehole is welded shut today.
The deepest place on land not covered by ice or water is the shore of the Dead Sea.
The deepest point under the Antarctic ice, beneath the Denman Glacier, is more than 3.5 km below sea level.
The Ganges and Brahmaputra together carry one of the largest sediment loads of any river system.
The Amazon's mouth is so wide that it contains an island about the size of Switzerland, Marajó.
The Congo River is the deepest river in the world, over 220 metres deep in places.
The Okavango Delta in Botswana is a river delta that never reaches the sea. It spreads into the Kalahari.
Lake Baikal freezes so clear in winter that you can see deep into the water.
Iceland has over 10,000 waterfalls.
Norway has some of the world's tallest waterfalls.
India's Jog Falls in Karnataka is one of the highest plunge waterfalls in the country.
Dudhsagar Falls in Goa looks like a stream of milk flowing down the mountain.
Athirappilly Falls in Kerala is sometimes called the Niagara of India.
Nohkalikai Falls in Meghalaya is one of the tallest plunge waterfalls in India.
Kerala has 44 rivers.
The Narmada flows west, unlike most major rivers in peninsular India, which flow east.
The Godavari is called the Dakshina Ganga, or Ganges of the South.
The Cauvery is called the Dakshina Ganga too, by some traditions.
The Sutlej and Indus flow through India into Pakistan.
The Indus Valley Civilisation was named after the Indus River.
The Gir Forest is the last home of wild Asiatic lions.
India has more than 100 national parks.
Jim Corbett National Park, established in 1936, is India's oldest national park.
The Great Himalayan National Park is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
Spiti Valley is a cold desert mountain valley with ancient monasteries.
Zanskar River freezes in winter, and people trek along the ice on a route called the Chadar Trek.
Pangong Lake in Ladakh changes colour through the day, from blue to green to grey.
Pangong Lake stretches from India into China.
The Tso Moriri in Ladakh is one of the highest lakes in India.
Gurudongmar Lake in Sikkim is one of the highest lakes in the world, at over 5,000 metres.
Rohtang Pass connects the Kullu Valley with Lahaul and Spiti.
The Atal Tunnel, under the Rohtang Pass, is one of the longest high-altitude highway tunnels in the world.
Umling La in Ladakh has one of the highest motorable roads in the world.
The Siachen Glacier is often called the highest battlefield in the world.
Andaman's Havelock Island, now Swaraj Dweep, has one of Asia's most famous beaches.
The Andaman Islands are home to some of the world's most isolated communities.
Kutch's salt desert glows under a full moon during the Rann Utsav festival.
Hampi's landscape is covered in giant granite boulders that are billions of years old.
Belum Caves in Andhra Pradesh are among the longest caves in India open to visitors.
Gandikota in Andhra Pradesh is called the Grand Canyon of India.
Chitrakote Falls in Chhattisgarh is one of the widest waterfalls in India.
Majuli island in Assam is shrinking because of river erosion.
Sikkim is India's first fully organic state.
Mawlynnong in Meghalaya has been called one of the cleanest villages in Asia.
Kibithu in Arunachal Pradesh is one of India's easternmost villages.
